How To Make Aloo Paratha:

1) Boil the potatoes in the pressure cooker. take potatoes in the cooker. add enough water so potatoes are submerged in the water. Cook it for 2-3 whistles on medium heat. Let the pressure go down by itself then open the lid. The number of whistles may vary. It depends on the size and type of the potatoes.

2) Remove the potatoes and let it cool to touch. Then peel the potatoes.
Aloo Paratha Recipe | How to make Punjabi Aloo Paratha

3) Mash the potatoes using masher. make sure to mash it well, don’t keep big chunks of potatoes. Otherwise it will be harder to roll paratha. paratha may get break.

4) Mix in green chilies, cilantro and grated ginger.

5) Add salt, amchur, garam masala, red chili powder and cumin powder.

6) Mix it well. Best way to mix is ‘use your hands’. Keep it aside.

7) Make the dough for paratha. Take atta, salt and oil in a bowl. Mix using fingertips.

8) Add little water a time and start kneading the dough.

9) Make smooth and soft dough. Cover it and let it rest for 15 minutes. NOTE: Make the dough while boiled potatoes are cooling. and make stuffing while dough is resting to speed up the process.

10) After 15 minutes knead the dough again one more time to make it smooth. divide it into 8 equal portions. Using your both palm, make smooth ball and then flatten it out. Also divide the potato stuffing into 8 portions.

11) Now take one flatten dough ball at time. Dip it into dry flour and roll into 3-4 inch diameter circle using rolling pin and board.

12) Put one potato ball in the center, gather the edges as shown.

13) Pinch it into the center to seal it properly.

14) flatten it using your hands very gently.

15) Again dip into dry flour and roll into 6 inch diameter round. Roll it very very gently, making perfect paratha needs practice.

16) Heat the tawa or griddle on medium heat. Once hot place the rolled paratha on it and cook for few seconds or till the you see few bubble on the top.

17) Flip it and cook other side as well. Apply some oil on the surface.

18) Flip again and cook it by pressing gently using spatula.

19) As you press it will puff up if it is rolled properly. otherwise it won’t puff but that is fine it will taste great. Again apply some oil on top and also around the edges. flip it.

20) Cook the other side as well by pressing lightly. Remove it to insulated container or serve directly to your family member’ plate. 
	Traditionally the dollop of white butter or makhan is added on top. Also it is served with Yogurt and mint chutney or coriander 
	chutney or pickle on side.

21) Serve hot
