eggless black forest cake - an eggless recipe of the classic black forest cake.
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
1 medium sized eggless chocolate cake or sponge chocolate cake OR check the below recipe
for eggless chocolate cake:
1 cup whole wheat flour/atta, levelled, 120 gms
3 tbsp cocoa powder
½ tsp baking soda
a pinch of salt
¾ cup sugar, 150 gms
1 cup cold water, 250 ml
¼ cup oil or melted butter, 62.5 ml
1 tbsp lime juice
½ tsp vanilla extract or vanilla powder
for the icing:
200 ml chilled amul fresh cream or chilled heavy whipping cream
5 tbsp icing sugar
3 tbsp chopped red cherries
7 to 8 tbsp grated chocolate or chocolate shavings, you can also add as required
2 to 3 tsp of cherry syrup or 1 tsp sugar dissolved in 3 to 4 tsp water . you can use rum or wine instead of sugar syrup
8 to 10 whole cherries for decoration or as required
some chocolate shavings for decoration (optional)
INSTRUCTIONS
for the eggless chocolate cake:
first grease a round baking pan of 7.5 inches diameter x 2 inches height with oil. preheat your
oven to 200 degrees celsius/392 degrees fahrenheit.
seive 1 cup whole wheat flour, 3 tbsp cocoa powder, a pinch of salt, ½ tsp baking soda in a plate. use good quality cocoa powder.
in another pan or bowl, take ¾ cup sugar.
add 1 cup cold water and stir so that the sugar dissolves.
now add ¼ cup oil or melted butter. i added oil. stir briskly so that everything is mixed well.
next add 1 tbsp lime juice. stir again.
now add ½ tsp vanilla extract or powder.
add the sieved dry ingredients to the wet mixture. using a wired whisk, mix everything well.
there should be no lumps in the cake batter. the batter is not thick but thin.
pour the cake batter in the prepared cake pan.
tap the sides of the cake pan so that the extra air bubbles are let out.
bake the cake in a preheated oven for 200 degrees celsius/392 fahrenhiet for 35 to 40 mins. since temperatures vary from oven to oven, do keep a check. for baking in a convection mode of microwave oven, preheat the oven at 180 degrees celsius/356 fahrenheit degrees for 15 minutes. then bake the cake at 180 degrees celsius/356 degrees fahrenheit for the 30 to 35 minutes.
for doneness check the cake with a tooth pick. the tooth pick should come out clean. once the cake becomes warm or cools down, unmold and place it on a wired rack. if the tooth pick is sticky, then place the cake bake in the oven and continue to bake for some more minutes. before frosting let the cake cool completely.
icing method:
keep the top of the cake facing you. slice the cake neatly and from the center with a large knife or serrated knife. you can also use a dental floss to slice the cake into two. with knife things can go uneven, so slice carefully. if crumbs fall, collect them and then add them on top of the cream layer.
remove the top half and keep aside. keep the the bottom cake half facing you. just cover them and keep aside while you prepare the cream icing.
in a stand mixer take cream and icing sugar. you can use an electric beater and take the cream and icing sugar in a bowl. i have used amul cream as that the only cream i get here. also it works very well for me. but one has to use icing sugar otherwise amul cream does not whipped well due to its low fat content. if you can get heavy whipping cream, then nothing like it. remember to chill the cream in the refrigerator at least for a day or two before you use it.
at the highest speed, run the wire whip blade and whip till the cream become stiff. i whipped amul cream for about 8 minutes in the highest speed of the stand mixer. if you use heavy whipping cream, you won't have to whip for so long. don’t overdo the beating as the cream might turn into butter, when you get stiff peaks, just stop the mixer or beater. to check, just invert the bowl and if the cream does not fall, the cream has got stiff peaks.
sprinkle some sugar syrup on the cake evenly. to make sugar syrup, dissolve 1 tsp sugar with 3 to 4 tsp water. you can also use rum or wine instead of sugar syrup.
now with a spatula spread about ¼ or ? of the whipped cream.
spread evenly. since this is a moist cake, the crumbs will be seen while spreading the cream. there is a method that can be used to to avoid the crumbs. but since we are making at home, this much is alright.
then add a layer of chopped red cherries. red cherries are easily available. these are in the indian variety of candied karonda berries. they are also called as karonda murabba in hindi. i get them easily at mithai shops here.
sprinkle grated chocolate on top.
cover with the top halve of the cake.
spread some cream on the top evenly. spread on the sides. if you have a cake decorating stand, then its best to use. for home purpose, i use a small flat plate covered with aluminum foil and place the cake on it before icing.
add the remaining whipped cream in a piping bag and use any decorative nozzle. decorate the cake with the cream from the piping bag.
don't worry about design flaws as we will be adding more grated chocolate on the cakes. so imperfections can be hidden :-)
place whole cherries on the cake.
you can add the amount of cherries you want to make a neat looking cake.
sprinkle some grated chocolate all over. you can also add chocolate shavings or chocolate vermicelli.
also place the grated chocolate on the side of the cake. i also added some chocolate shavings from top.
cover the cake with a large bowl without it touching the sides and place in the fridge for the cream icing to set. keep to set for 3 to 4 hours or overnight.
when the cream icing has set well, slice and serve the eggless black forest cake.