

Worlds Best Fudgiest Brownies live up to their name! Perfect crisp crackly top, super fudgy centre, chewy and gooey in all the right places, studded with melted chunks of chocolate!

PLUS! Each ingredient comes measured AND weighed FOR YOU!

AN ORIGINAL CAFE DELITES RECIPE adapted from my Best Fudgy Cocoa Brownies Recipe
Course: Desserts
Cuisine: American
Servings: 16 slices
Author: Karina
Ingredients

    1 cup 8oz/240g butter, melted and cooled
    2 tablespoons (30ml) vegetable oil
    1 1/4 cups (9oz/260g) white sugar
    1 cup (7oz/200g) packed light brown sugar
    4 (2oz/57g each) large eggs, at room temperature
    1 tablespoon (15ml) pure vanilla extract
    3/4 teaspoon salt
    1 cup (3.5oz/130g) all purpose flour
    1 cup (3.5oz/100g) good quality, unsweetened cocoa powder
    7 oz (200g) roughly chopped chocolate or large chocolate chips

Instructions

    Preheat oven to 175°C | 350°F.
    Lightly grease an 8x12-inch square baking pan* with cooking oil spray. Line with parchment paper (or baking paper); set aside.

    Combine melted butter, oil and sugars together in a medium-sized bowl. Whisk well to combine. Add the eggs and vanilla; beat until lighter in colour (another minute).
    Sift in flour, cocoa powder and salt. Gently fold the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients until JUST combined (do NOT over beat as doing so well affect the texture of your brownies).
    Fold in 3/4 of the chocolate pieces.
    Pour batter into prepared pan, smoothing the top out evenly, and top with remaining chocolate pieces.
    Bake for 25-30 minutes or until the centre of the brownies in the pan no longer jiggles and is just set to the touch (the brownies will keep baking in the hot pan out of the oven). If testing with a toothpick, the toothpick should come out dirty for fudge-textured brownies.
    After 10 minutes, carefully remove them out of the pan and allow to cool to room temperature before slicing into 16 brownies.


    ENJOY!

OPTIONAL ADD INS:

    Crushed walnuts, peanuts, almonds, pecans, etc. Chocolate chips, peanut butter chips, shredded coconut, dried fruit (cranberries, raisins, etc)

STORING:

    Store at room temperature for 3 days, or refrigerator for up to 5 days. These brownies can also be frozen for up to 3 months. Thaw overnight the refrigerator and bring to room temperature before serving OR reheat in the microwave.

Recipe Notes

*For thicker brownies, bake in a 7x11-inch pan for 40-45 minutes. For thinner brownies, bake in a 9x13-inch pan for 18-20 minutes.

PLEASE NOTE: An 8x12-inch pan bakes the most perfect brownies -- thickness and texture.

TIPS AND TRICKS:

    Do NOT over beat your batter once the flour and cocoa powder are added. That creates air pockets in the batter which will give you cake-like textured brownies.
    Please try not to over bake them. Set a timer if you need too. I like mine at exactly 23 minutes in an 8x12-inch pan. You can go a little bit over if you like them set a bit more, but I don't recommend it if you're looking for the fudgiest brownies in the world. Remember, they will continue to bake slightly in the hot pan once pulled out of the oven,
    I bake my brownies on the top shelf in the oven. I find the middle shelf cooks them a lot faster, slightly burns them on the top and dries them out.
