Carrot cake recipe
You will need:
For batter:
	2 cups (260 grams) all-purpose flour
	2 teaspoons baking soda
	1 teaspoon kosher salt
	1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
	1 1/4 cups (295 ml) canola or other vegetable oil
	1 cup (200 grams) granulated sugar
	1 cup (200 grams) lightly packed brown sugar
	1 teaspoon vanilla extract
	4 large eggs
	3 cups (300 grams) grated peeled carrots (5 to 6 medium carrots)
	1 cup (100 grams) coarsely chopped pecans
	
For frosting:
	8 ounces (225 grams) cream cheese, at room temperature
	1 1/4 cups (140 grams) powdered sugar
	1/3 cup (80 ml) heavy whipping cream
	1/2 cup (50 grams) coarsely chopped pecans, for topping cake

Directions:

Make batter:
	Heat the oven to 350ยบ F. Grease two 9-inch round cake pans and line the bottom with parchment paper then grease the top
of the paper. Or, grease and flour the bottom and sides of both pans.
In a medium bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, salt, and the cinnamon until well blended. In a separate bowl, whisk the oil, 	sugars and vanilla. Whisk in eggs, one at a time, until blended.
Switch to a large rubber spatula. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl then add the dry ingredients in 3 parts, stirring gently until they disappear and the batter is smooth. Stir in the carrots, nuts and raisins.

Bake Cake
	Divide the batter between the prepared cake pans. Bake until the tops of the cake layers are springy when touched and when a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean; 35 to 45 minutes.
Cool cakes in pans for 15 minutes then turn out onto cooling racks, peel off parchment paper and cool completely.

To Finish
	In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with a handheld mixer on medium speed until creamy, about 1 minute. Beat in the powdered sugar, a 1/4 cup at a time until fluffy. Pour in cream and beat on medium speed for 1 minute. Chill covered until ready to frost cake.

When the cake layers are completely cool, frost the top of one cake layer, place the other cake layer on top. Decoratively swirl the top of the cake with remaining frosting, leaving the sides unfrosted. Scatter nuts on top.