Blue apron price: <$20
2 Catfish Fillets
½ Cup Cracked Freekeh
3 Cloves Garlic
2 Ounces Kumquats 
1 Bunch Collard Greens 8 stems
1 Large Bunch Thai Basil 4 stems one is very large
2 Tablespoons Sugar
2 Tablespoons Instant Flour - Wondra 
1 Bird's Eye Chile
1 Tablespoon Rice Vinegar

1Cook the freekeh:

Heat a medium pot of salted water to boiling on high. Once boiling, add the freekeh and cook 20 to 22 minutes, or until tender. Turn off the heat. Drain thoroughly and return to the pot.

2Prepare the ingredients:
While the freekeh cooks, wash and dry the fresh produce. Peel and thinly slice the garlic. Slice the kumquats into thin rounds. Remove and discard the collard green stems; roughly chop the leaves. Pick the basil off the stems; discard the stems. Remove the stem of the bird’s eye chile. (For a spicier dish, halve the chile lengthwise to expose the seeds.) Immediately wash your hands and cutting board after handling the chile. 



3Cook the collard greens:

While the freekeh continues to cook, in a medium pan, heat 2 teaspoons of oil on medium-high until hot. Add the garlic; cook, stirring frequently, 1 to 2 minutes, or until fragrant. Add the collard greens and 2 tablespoons of water; season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, 2 to 3 minutes, or until wilted. Transfer to the pot of cooked freekeh. Wipe out the pan.
4Cook the catfish:
While the freekeh continues to cook, pat the catfish fillets dry with paper towels; season with salt and pepper on both sides. Place theflour onto a large plate. Coat one side of each seasoned fillet in the flour, shaking off any excess. In the same pan used to cook the collard greens, heat a thin layer of oil on medium-high until hot. Add the fillets, coated side down first. Cook 2 to 3 minutes per side, or until golden brown and cooked through. Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate and set aside in a warm place. Carefully drain off and discard the oil, leaving any browned bits (or fond) in the pan.



5Make the glaze:

While the freekeh continues to cook, heat the pan of reserved fond on medium until hot. Add ¼ cup of water; stir in the kumquats, bird’s eye chile, sugar, vinegar and half the basil. Cook, stirring occasionally, 3 to 5 minutes, or until thickened. Turn off the heat; remove and discard the chile. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
6Dress the freekeh & plate your dish:
Add a drizzle of olive oil into the pot of cooked collard greens and freekeh; stir to combine and season with salt and pepper to taste. Divide the finished freekeh and cooked catfish between 2 plates. Top each fillet with a few spoonfuls of the glaze. Garnish with the remaining basil. Enjoy!