Ingredients:

1 h 12 servings 378 cals
On Sale
What's on sale near you.

 Cornbread Crust: 1/2 cup butter 1 onion, finely chopped 1 clove garlic, minced 1 (15.25 ounce) can whole kernel corn, drained 1 (15 ounce) can cream-style corn, drained 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup egg substitute 1 (8.5 ounce) package corn bread mix Chicken Topping: 2 1/3 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 2 tablespoons canned green chile peppers, chopped 4 ounces sliced fresh mushrooms 1 1/2 cups reduced-fat sour cream 1/4 teaspoon salt, or to taste 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper, or to taste 1 (8 ounce) package Monterey Jack cheese, shredded Add all ingredients to list

Directions:

Add a note
Print 
Prep
20 m
Cook
40 m
Ready In
1 h
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Melt butter in a small skillet over medium heat. Add onion and garlic; cook and stir until tender, 4 to 6 minutes (see Cook's Note). Remove from heat and set aside. In a large bowl, combine corn, cream-style corn, salt, and egg substitute. Beat in muffin mix. Fold in cooked onion mixture. Pour into prepared baking dish.
In a large bowl, combine chicken, green chiles, mushrooms, sour cream, salt and pepper. Spoon over corn mixture to within 1 inch from edge. Sprinkle top with cheese.
Bake in preheated oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until edges are golden brown.
You might also like
 
Bruschetta Chicken Bake
The popular appetizer as a tasty hot dish!

 
"Spinach Salad" Chicken Bake
Great salad flavors baked into chicken breasts!

 
Egg and Cornbread Bake
A sweet ‘n’ salty brunch winner!

Get the magazine
Subscribe to Allrecipes Magazine
Get a full year for just $7.99!
Cook 5-star weekday dinners every time.

Footnotes
Editor's Note:
If you don't have leftover cooked chicken handy, you can use raw chicken breasts and cook them in Step 2. Dice one or two boneless, skinless chicken breast halves and stir them into the skillet after the onions and garlic are soft. Cook and stir about 5 minutes; the chicken pieces should be cooked through, and will continue to cook as the casserole bakes.
Cook's Note:
You can substitute one can of mushrooms, drained, for the sliced fresh mushrooms.
Tip
Aluminum foil can be used to keep food moist, cook it evenly, and make clean-up easier.