Here's the recipe for Chicken Sukka:

Chicken Sukka

Ingredients

    1 kg chicken cut in pieces
    2 medium sized onions finely chopped
    2 medium sized onion sliced
    2 tomatoes finely chopped
    2 green chillies chopped
    1 tsp kasuri methi (dried fenugreek leaves)
    1 tsp kashmiri red chilli powder
    1/2 tsp crushed black pepper
    1 tsp tandoori chicken masala powder
    1/2 tsp turmeric powder
    Salt as required
    Coriander leaves for garnish

For the masala

    2 medium sized onion
    1 inch ginger
    10-12 cloves garlic
    2 dried red chillies
    1 bay leaf
    3-4 cardamom
    4 cloves
    7-8 peppercorn
    1 black cardamom
    1 tsp cumin seeds
    1 tsp fennel seeds
    1 tbsp kasuri methi
    1-2 green chillies
    1/2 tsp oil

Dry roast ingredients

    2 cardamom
    2 cloves
    1/2 inch cinnamon
    4 peppercorn
    1/2 tsp cumin

Method

    Dry roast the ingredients in a dry pan or tawa.
    Cool and coarsely grind to a powder. Reserve.
    In a mixer, add the ingredients under the masala, a dash of water and grind till you get a smooth texture. Keep aside.
    Heat a nonstick kadhai or dutch oven and pour 1 tbsp oil.
    Once hot, add some cumin seeds and let it pop.
    Add finely chopped onion to it and saute till translucent.
    Add the ground masala and fry it for a bit.
    Add the powdered masalas (kasuri methi, kashmiri red chilli powder, crushed black pepper, tandoori chicken masala powder, turmeric powder, salt), tomatoes and fry the masala well for 7 to 10 minutes till the oil separates out.
    Crush in the kasuri methi and add the chicken pieces.
    Cook open for five minutes without turning.
    Lower the heat, mix well and cook covered for 20 to 25 minutes. Add a little water if you see the chicken sticking (I typically don't) to the pan. Alternately, keep stirring once to ensure it doesn't stick to the pan.
    Cook till the gravy is thick and coats the chicken well.
    Add the dry roasted garam masala powder and coriander leaves. Give it a stir and sprinkle some slit green chillies.
    Serve hot with rice or roti.
