Ingredients

185ml		unsweetened almond milk
7g		dried active yeast
2tablespoons	maple syrup
1tablespoon	ground flaxseed
1tablespoon	coconut oil, plus extra for greasing
150g		wholegrain flour
160g		plain white flour
1teaspoon	ground cinnamon
FILLING
90g		pecan nuts
2		ripe medium bananas
4		medjool dates
1tablespoon	ground cinnamon
2tablespoons	maple syrup
ALMOND ICING
1-2tablespoons	almond milk
75g		icing sugar

Method

To make the dough, gently heat the almond milk until lukewarm, then combine in a small bowl with the yeast and maple syrup. Set aside for about 5 minutes for the yeast to activate.
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, stir the flaxseed into 3 tablespoons of water and set aside for 1 to 2 minutes.
Melt the coconut oil, then add to the flaxseed mixture along with the flours, cinnamon and ¼ teaspoon of sea salt. Gradually stir in the yeast mixture.
Bring everything together with your hands – the dough will feel a bit tacky, but this is fine. Turn out the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead a couple of times.
Place in a greased bowl, cover with a tea towel and leave somewhere warm to prove for 1 hour or until doubled in size.
Meanwhile, make the filling. Toast the pecans in a dry frying pan. Peel the bananas and destone the dates.
Reserving one-third of the toasted pecans to one side, add all the filling ingredients to a food processor, then blitz until smooth.
Preheat the oven to 180ºC/gas 4. Grease a 20cm x 20cm baking dish with a little coconut oil.
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough out to 20cm x 40cm. Blob the nut mixture onto the dough and spread it evenly across to the edges.
Roll up widthways (from the shortest edge) tightly into a log, then cut into nine slices.
Place the slices in the baking dish, cover with a clean tea towel and allow to prove for another 25 minutes or until doubled in size. Bake for 30 minutes, or until golden and slightly firm to the touch. Leave in the tin to cool.
In a small bowl, mix together the almond milk and icing sugar until it’s thick enough to drizzle over the buns. Chop and sprinkle over the reserved toasted pecans and serve.
