Awesome Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookie Recipe
Prep time: 30 minutesCook time: 20 minutesYield: Makes about 30 cookies.
Brown the butter first, as the butter is cooling, prep the other ingredients.
Ingredients
1 cup (2 sticks, 8 oz, 225 g) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1 cup brown sugar, packed
1/2 cup white granulated sugar
2 eggs (large), lightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 Tbsp water
1 1/2 cups bitter-sweet chocolate chips
1 cup chopped pecans (optional)
1 cup sweetened, shredded coconut (optional)
3 cups Old Fashioned rolled oats (Quick oats are okay, but not steel cut, not
instant)
Method
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-1.jpgoatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-2.jpg
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-3.jpgoatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-4.jpg
1 Brown the butter. Place sticks of butter in a thick-bottomed medium sized
stainless-steel saucepan. (It's important to use a saucepan that has a light,
reflective interior like stainless steel, otherwise you won't be able to see
the butter browning.) Heat on medium. Melt the butter, whisking so that the
butter melts evenly. Continue to cook the butter. As it cooks, the butter will
foam up, and then the foam will subside. Whisk frequently to check underneath
the bubbly surface. At some point, browned bits will form at the bottom of the
pan and the butter will begin to smell nutty. Watch carefully, it's easy for
the butter to go from browned to burnt. When the browned bits begin to form,
remove the pan from the heat. Pour the melted butter, with the browned bits,
into a glass or metal bowl. Allow to cool a bit while you prepare the other
ingredients.
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-5.jpg
2 Vigorously whisk together the flour, salt, baking soda, nutmeg, and cinnamon
together in a large bowl.
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-6.jpgoatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-7.jpg
3 Preheat oven to 350째F (175째C). Place the browned butter (along with the
browned bits) in a mixer bowl. Add the brown and white sugar. Beat on medium
high speed for about 3 minutes, until smooth. Add the eggs and vanilla. Beat
for three more minutes on medium speed until smooth and light.
4 Using a wooden spoon, stir the flour mixture into the butter sugar egg
mixture. Stir in 2 Tbsp water (note that if you are using jumbo eggs, and not
large eggs as the recipe calls for, you will probably not need this much extra
liquid.)
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-8.jpgoatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-9.jpg
5 Stir in the chocolate chips, and the pecans and shredded coconut (if using).
Stir in the oatmeal. Up to this point you can make the dough up to a day and a
half ahead and store in the refrigerator.
oatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-10.jpgoatmeal-chocolate-chip-cookie-11.jpg
4 Butter two large cookie sheets, or line them with Silpat mats or parchment
paper. Spoon out heaping tablespoon-fuls of cookie dough and lay them on the
cookie sheet. Make sure you have about 2" of space between each cookie, as
they will flatten a little and spread on the cookie sheet. Bake at 350째F
(175째C) for 10 minutes, or until they are just brown around the edges, but
still soft in the center. They will firm up as they cool. (If you want them
crispier, you can bake them from 12-14 minutes. 10 minutes will help yield a
more chewy cookie.)
5 Take the cookies out of the oven and let them cool for two or three minutes
on the hot baking sheet. Then, using a metal spatula, carefully transfer the
still-hot cookies to a wire rack to cool. They will continue to be soft until
completely cooled. Once completely cooled, store in an airtight container.


Read more:
http://www.simplyrecipes.com/recipes/awesome_oatmeal_chocolate_chip_cookie/#ixzz3VVldCgBm
