INGREDIENTS

1 quart canola oil, for frying
3 1/2 cups low-sodium chicken broth
1 onion, peeled and quartered
1 carrot, peeled and quartered
1 celery rib, quartered
Chicken Filling
1 large chicken breast
8 ounces packaged cream cheese, softened
1 ear corn, kernels cut off the cob
2 green onions, thinly sliced
1 garlic clove, minced
Salt and pepper, to taste
1/2 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 egg
1 tablespoon whole milk
1 cup plain Italian bread crumbs
Salt and pepper, to taste
 Buy all at FreshDirect
Powered by POPCART
PREPARATION

1. In a large pot, preheat oil to 350°F. In another large pot, combine broth, onions, carrots, and celery and bring to a simmer. Carefully add chicken, cover, and reduce heat to medium-low. Poach chicken for 12 to 15 minutes, or until just cooked through. Turn off heat, but leave the pot of hot poaching liquid on the stove. Remove chicken from liquid and let it rest for 10 minutes.

2. For the filling, finely chop or shred chicken into a large mixing bowl. Add cream cheese, corn, green onions, and garlic. Season with salt and pepper. Fold to combine.

3. Strain 1 1/2 cups of the poaching liquid and discard the rest. In a saucepan over high heat, bring reserved liquid and oil to a boil. Add flour and stir vigorously until dough forms. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth, about 5 minutes. Roll out to 1/4 inch thick. Cut out small rounds using a 3-inch circle cutter or the rim of a round cup. Place a small scoop (about 1 tablespoon) of the filling in the center of each round. Pinch dough together at the top to seal, creating plump little teardrop-shaped pouches. In a small bowl, lightly whisk eggs and milk together. Place bread crumbs in another small bowl. Carefully dip each pouch into the egg wash and then the bread crumbs until fully coated. Fry coxinha in small batches for 7 to 9 minutes, or until golden brown. Drain on paper towels, lightly season with salt, and serve hot.
Coxinha freeze well and can be made at least a week ahead. There's no need to thaw before frying.