Recipe for Zuchini feta rolls

Curry Grilled Zucchini Roll Ups [yields 14-18]

2 medium zucchinis, [~9” long + 1 1/2” diameter]
1 large red pepper
~3oz creamy goat cheese
1 Tbsp curry powder
1 tsp oregano
1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/2 tsp garam masala
1/4 tsp turmeric
salt + pepper
oil
Preheat your grill to about 350-400 degrees or medium-high.
Once hot, lightly oil the pepper and place it on the grill on its side.  Rotate 4 times for about 5 minutes per side. 
While the pepper is cooking, mix the spices together in a small bowl, omitting the salt + pepper.
Trim the ends and slice your zucchini lengthwise into about 1/8-1/4 inch thick slices.
Lightly coat all of the zucchini strips in oil on both sides and then rub the spice mixture onto both sides of the strips.
Sprinkle one side generously with salt and pepper.
Place the strips on the grill in a single layer for 5-7 minutes.
Flip and grill the other side for another 3-5 minutes.  You want them golden brown and slightly charred, not crispy.
Take the zucchini off the grill and let cool on a wire rack.
Remove the pepper and de-seed, then slice into 1/2” x 1 1/2” slices depending how wide your zucchini strips are.  Let cool.
Once cooled, sprinkle with goat cheese down the length of each strip and place one slice of roasted pepper at the end.
Wash your hands to avoid goat cheese all over the outside of the rolls, then roll the strips and place seam side down.
Serve chilled or at room temp.  Top with s+p if desired.



5 large courgettes, washed and sliced into thin slices, lenghways
100g Mediterranean Delicacies Danish Feta
2 tbsp fresh mint, finely chopped
1 chilli, finely chopped
fresh rocket
juice of ½ lemon
salt & pepper to taste

Brush the courgette slices with olive oil and grill in a griddle pan until cooked through. Remove and allow to cool slightly.
Combine the feta, mint and chilli and lemon juice in a food processor and blend until everything is mixed through.
Spread the feta mixture on the grilled courgette slices, followed by a piece of fresh rocket and roll up.