Ingredients:
2 tbs olive oil
1 cup medium grain rice
1 cup brown lentils
2 cups small macaroni
2 cups vegetable stock
1 garlic clove, quartered
1 tsp cumin
1 bay leaf
½ teaspoon salt
Salt to taste
For the Sauce:
2 tbsp olive oil
1 small onion, diced finely
2 cloves garlic, finely minced
1 (15 oz) can unseasoned tomato sauce (cooked/pureed tomatoes)
2 tsp baharat spice blend (see recipe here)
¼ teaspoon red chile flakes (omit if you dislike spicy hot)
1 tbs red wine vinegar
Salt & pepper to taste
Crispy Onion Garnish:
2 large onions, finely sliced
Oil for deep-frying
1 (15 oz) can garbanzo beans

Instructions
1- Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the rice and fry it for 2 minutes, then add the vegetable stock. Bring it to a boil, decrease the heat to low, cover and simmer for 15 minutes or until the rice is cooked.
2- Rinse the lentils under cold water and add them to another medium saucepan with 2 cups of water. Add the garlic, cumin and bay leaf and bring it to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer for 20-30 minutes or until the lentils are tender. Once cooked, add the salt and stir to combine. Strain any excess liquid if necessary.
3- Cook the macaroni according to package instructions until al dente.
4- Note: Prepare the rice, macaroni and lentils while the sauce is simmering and leave them covered in the pots to keep warm.
5- To make sauce:
6- Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat and add the onion. Cook until soft and translucent, about 5-7 minutes. Add the garlic and saute until golden brown. Add the tomato sauce, baharat, salt and pepper to taste, chile flakes (if using) and red wine vinegar. Bring it to a simmer, reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
7- To make the crispy onions, heat the oil in a skillet. Add the onions and fry until dark brown. Using a slotted spoon, remove them from the oil and place them on paper towels to drain and cool.
8- Add the rice, lentils and macaroni to a large bowl and toss to combine (or simply scoop out desired amounts of each onto the plates). Sprinkle a little baharat over each portion and serve topped with some of the spicy tomato sauce. Top with garbanzo beans, the crispy onions and another sprinkle of baharat. Serve warm.
