Wolfgang's CUT Steakhouse Macaroni and Cheese

Serves: 8 to 10 / Preparation time: 20 minutes / Total time: 1 hour, 10 minutes

1 pound dried cavatappi pasta, or other bite-sized pasta tubes

6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing

6 tablespoons all-purpose flour

1 bay leaf

4 cups milk

1 1/2 cups crème fraîche

1 1/2 teaspoons sea salt, plus extra as needed

3 3/4 cups freshly shredded mozzarella cheese

1 3/4 cups freshly shredded aged cheddar cheese

Freshly ground white pepper

3/4 cup fresh brioche bread crumbs

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, fill a large bowl with ice cubes and water and place it near the
sink. Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook until al dente (tender but still chewy), according to package
instructions. Drain the pasta and immediately add it to the ice water, stirring until cooled, 1 to 2 minutes. Drain well
and set aside.

Preheat an oven to 375 degrees. Butter a 3- to 4-quart square baking dish. Set aside.

Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Stirring continuously with a wire whisk, sprinkle in the 
flour and cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Add the bay leaf and, whisking continuously, slowly pour in the milk until smooth. 
Simmer, whisking occasionally, until the mixture has thickened, about 14 to 16 minutes. Remove and discard the bay leaf. 
Whisk in the crème fraîche and the salt; bring the mixture to a simmer.

Remove the pan from the heat and stir in 11/4 cups each of the mozzarella and cheddar until melted. Season to taste with 
some salt and white pepper.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the pasta and cheese sauce. Stir in 2 cups more of the mozzarella. Transfer the mixture to 
the prepared baking dish, spreading it evenly. Evenly sprinkle the remaining mozzarella and cheddar over the top, and then 
sprinkle with the bread crumbs.

Bake in the preheated oven until the mixture is bubbly and the bread crumbs are golden brown (about 30 minutes). Remove 
from the oven and leave to settle at room temperature for 10 minutes before scooping and serving.

From and tested by Wolfgang Puck.