Essential Ingredients - Ingredients for Masala Dosa
Dosa mix to prepare for
Rice - 3 cups
Urad dal wash - 1 cup
Azadirachta Dana - a teaspoon
Baking soda - 3/4 small Cmmc
Salt - to taste or a small spoon
Oil - Dose for Cook
Masala Dosa to prepare for
Potatoes - 400 g (6-7 medium size)
Peas - a small bowl (green grains are abraded)
Oil - 2 tablespoons
Seeds - 1 tsp
Turmeric - 1/4 tsp
Coriander powder - 1 tsp
Green pepper - 2-3 (finely Qatar take)
Ginger - 1 1/2 inch long piece (grated, cover)
Salt - to taste (3/4 teaspoon)
Amchur powder - ¼ tsp
Cayenne pepper - a quarter teaspoon less
Green coriander - 2 tablespoons (finely strand)



Recipe - How to make Masala Dosa
Urad dal and clean Azadirachta book Wash and please soaked in water for 4 hours or overnight. Please clean the rice, wash and soak for varying periods in a bowl, please.

Take out the water and put less water wet Urad dal dal Menthi an own finely grind and take it out in a big pot, the rice in using less water, a little fat Pisiye, and so form a viscous slurry Milaiye to Donaun That way when dropped from spoon edge as a point should not fall.

Frmant salt and baking soda mixture to pour warm place covered for 12-14 hours kept Dijiye, Frment mixture becomes doubly proud than before. The mixture is ready to make dosa.

Preparation for Dosa Masala
Ubaliye potatoes, cool, peel into fine pieces, take a break. 
Put oil in a frying pan and heat, pour in hot oil Tdkaiye mustard, turmeric powder and coriander powder Put, green chillies, ginger and pour fry 1 minute, peas and 2 tablespoons water pouring Milaiye, covered peas cook until soft. The spice potatoes, salt, Amchoor powder, red chilli powder mixed roast mix for 2 minutes. Please close fire green coriander and mix. Spice is ready to dose.

If you want to put onions finely cut the onion and ginger, then 1-2, with Hrimirc put fry until light pink, combined with all the other things mentioned above Make seasoning.

Create Dose
Spoon the mixture to run, looks more condensed then mix some water (mixture should be diluted slightly solution fritters).

Non-stick frying pan or griddle over the fire to warm iron heavy dose blower Keep the pan should be hot, medium, cover the fire, then with the aid of a coarse wet cloth Pohchiye to Tawa, the first pan with a little oil (Tawa were only greasy, oil-blind), smooth way. Put a tablespoon of mixture in the middle of the pan and spoon the filling includes round pan, the pan dose diluted Failaiye 12-14 inches in diameter. Put a little oil around the dose of the spoon.

Medium and fast fire Dose soak, when the top surface was poached Brown would have been too happy with the bottom surface, now 1 or 2 spoon potato seasoning, placing Failaiye and scoop up with the help of Dosa Dosa take the edge There Modie, lifted off the pan keep plate. Masala Dosa is ready. Second Dose pan before putting the pan on a wet thick cloth Pochiye well, not very hot frying pan, griddle cools Dosa Dosa time spread can be spread easily, for the second dose Take spoonful mixing and pan Thin on Failaiye, again the same way for Cook Duhraiye, are all making similar dose. Hot masala dosa, sambar and Serve and eat with peanut sauce.

Plain Dosa (Plain Dosa) to make:
The above method is to spread the mixture on a hot griddle, pour over potato masala dose, plain dosa are raised by the banks to scoop and serve Modie.

Paper Dosa (Paper Dosa) for:
Dosa Dosa than plain paper for the mixture to dilute the mixture to the pan to spread too thin and plain dosa is like to compress.

Dose cheese (Paneer Dosa) for:
By grated cheese, salt to taste and chopped green coriander and potato masala replace Milaiye put, 1 tablespoons cheese over Dosa Dosa turn Serve Put the same way.

Precautions - Tips for making Crispy Masala Dosa
1. Dose are soaked before spreading thick cloth to wipe the pan, add the course, the griddle should be clear and should be a little cold.
2. Dosa pan before frying pan over high heat should not disperse. If more hot griddle will not dilute your Dosa will not spread and more crisp.
3. As soon Dose should spread well, so please fire Dosa slightly more should be perfectly crisp.
4. Dose before turning lower layer enter Csikne until brown.
