Ingredients:
 - Dilute Hydrochloric acid
 - Sodium Hydroxide
 - Ethyl Ether
 - "VICKS" nasal inhalers

Equipment:
 - 2 large eyedroppers
 - 10 small glass bottles
 - 1 large glass or porcelain bowl
 - coffee filters
 - 1 small jar with a top
 - 1 Pyrex baking dish
 - 1 glass test tube.

Directions:
 1. Break open the inhalers, a pair of real sharp scissors does this good.
    Place the cottons that were inside in a jar and close the lid.  (Remember you
    use all 12 cottons.)

 2. In the bowl, combine 1- 1/3 oz. water and 2/3 oz. muriatic acid.  Shred
    cottons in this solution, and knead for 5 minutes with hands.  (ALWAYS BE SURE
    THERE'S CLEAN RUBBER GLOVES on your hands.) You can do it bare-handed if you've
    got tough skin.  Squeeze all juice out of filters after you knead, and throw
    em away.

 3. Filter the remaining liquid into the quart jar.  It will be necessary to do
    this several times to get that awful smelling oil out.  The chemicals in the
    inhalers have been bonded to the HCl, and the oils have been filtered off.
    Throw the filters away.

 4. Pour enough of the solution into a small bottle to fill it 1/3 full.  Save
    any leftover juice for the second batch.

 5. Pour 1/4 teaspoon of the lye crystals into the bottle and agitate.  Do this
    carefully, as the mixture will become hot, and give off a gas.  Repeat this
    step until the mixture remains cloudy.

 6. Fill the bottle from step (5) up the rest of the way with ether. Cap the
    bottle, and agitate for about 8 minutes.  It is very important to expose every
    molecule of the free-base to the ether for as long as possible.

 7. Let the mixture settle.  There will be a middle layer that is very thick.
    Tap the side of the bottle to get this layer as thin as possible.

 8. Remove the top layer with the eyedropper, being careful not to get any of
    the middle layer in it.  Save the top layer, and throw the rest away.

 9. Fill a bottle half-way with water, and about 10 drops of acid.  Pour the
    top layer from step (8) into the bottle, and cap it.  Shake the bottle for 2
    minutes.  When it settles, remove the top layer and throw it away.  The free
    base has now been bonded to the HCl/water mixture.

 10. If there is anything left from step (3), repeat the procedure with it.

 11. Evaporate the solution in the Pyrex dish on low heat.  You can do this on
     the stove, but I have found that if you leave it on top of a hot-water heater
     (like the one that supplies hot water to your house) for about 2-3 days, the
     remaining crystals will be Methamphetamine.
