Mississippi Mud Pie

Ingredients

All-purpose flour, for work surface
Pie Crust 

8 ounces bittersweet chocolate chips
1/2 ounce shaved bittersweet chocolate bar 
1/2 cup coarsely chopped pecans, toasted
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
4 large eggs
1 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup heavy cream
Directions
1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. On a lightly floured work surface, roll
dough out to a 12-inch round. Fit into a 9-inch deep-dish pie plate.
Using kitchen shears, trim crust, leaving a 1-inch overhang. Fold edge
under then crimp with your fingers. Prick bottom all over with a fork;
refrigerate 30 minutes.
2. Line with parchment paper and fill with pie weights or dried beans. Place
on a rimmed baking sheet. Bake 20 minutes until edges are just
beginning to turn golden. Remove parchment and pie weights, and
return shell to oven. Bake 10 to 15 minutes longer or until golden all
over. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Reduce oven temperature to 350
degrees.
3. Sprinkle evenly 2 ounces of the chocolate chips into the pie shell.  Let
heat from the cooling pie crust melt the chocolate.  Wait for 5 minutes and gently spread the chocolate to cover the bottom of the crust.  Scatter pecans over.
4. Using the microwavable bowl, microwave butter with remaining 6 ounces of
chocolate at 50% power for 2 minute.   Stir and if any chocolate or butter is
not melted, Heat an additional minute at 30% power. 
5. Using an electric mixer on high, beat eggs, granulated sugar, corn
syrup, and salt until thick and batter falls back in a ribbon when beaters
are lifted from bowl, about 3 minutes. Gently fold butter-chocolate
mixture into egg mixture. Pour into pie shell. Bake 35 to 40 minutes or
until top forms a crust and filling is just set.
6. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely, then refrigerate until well
chilled.
7. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat cream until soft peaks form. 
Top cooled pie with whipped cream and chocolate shavings.

Pie Crust

2 1/2 cup flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1 cup butter, unsalted
5 Tablespoons cold water
1 Tablespoon vinegar
1 egg, beaten

1. Slice each butter cube into 8 slices crosswise. Slice lengthwise in half.
Rotate cube lengthwise and slice lengthwise again. Each cube should produce 32
pieces.
2. Place flour, salt and sugar into a food processor.  Pulse once or twice to
blend.
3.  Add butter to flour mixture in processor.  Pulse 10 times until butter
pieces are the size of peas, or slightly smaller.
4.  Pour butter, flour mixture into a 1 gallon-sized food safe bag.
5.  Beat together, egg, water and vinegar in a small bowl.
6.  Pour 1/4 cup liquid into butter, flour mixture.  Slightly twist bag closed
and shake bag to incorporate liquid into butter,flour mixture.  Continue until
all liquid has been incorporated and there are no dry flour bits remaining.
7.  Chill dough at least 2 hours before rolling.

