ingredients (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)

    125 to 150 gms chinese noodles
    1 medium carrot/gajar, julienned
    2-3 medium spring onions/hara pyaaz, finely chopped
    8-10 french beans, thinly sliced diagonally or finely chopped
    1 small to medium capsicum/green bell pepper, julienned or finely chopped
    2-3 garlic cloves/lahsun, finely chopped
    ½ inch ginger/adrak, finely chopped
    1 to 2 tsp soy sauce or as required
    1 tsp finely chopped celery or 1 tsp chopped coriander (both of them have different flavors. celery will give a more chinese flavor and coriander will give an indianised taste)
    2 tbsp oil
    salt and freshly powdered black pepper as required

how to make the recipe:

    first heat enough water in a pan with salt and few drops of oil.
    when the water comes to a boil, add the noodles.
    stir and allow to cook the noodles till they are just cooked or al dente.
    whilst the noodles are cooking, prepare the veggies.
    once the noodles are cooked well, drain them in a colander or sieve.
    then rinse the noodles in fresh water by placing the colander or sieve under fresh tap water.
    drain & keep aside.
    heat oil in a wok or pan.
    first add the garlic and ginger and stir fry on medium flame for some seconds.
    increase the flame to high & add the chopped spring onions.
    keep on stirring continuously and stir fry the onions till they become translucent.
    add the veggies - carrots, capsicum and french beans.
    continue to toss & stir fry on a high flame till the veggies are almost cooked.
    use a pan with handles as its better to lift it while tossing.
    you can also decrease the flame if the heat becomes too much too handle and then stir fry the veggies on a medium flame.
    some crunch should be there in the vegetables, so don't cook the vegetables till they become completely soft.
    add the soy sauce, celery, salt and pepper. stir and then add the noodles.
    keep on tossing and stirring till the veggies are mixed well with the noodles for minute or two. switch off the fire.
    check the taste and add more salt, black pepper or soy sauce if required.
    serve the veg noodles steaming hot as it is or with some black bean sauce or tomato sauce.
    you can also serve the noodles with veg manchurian or veg balls in hot garlic sauce.