
Orecchiette with turnip greens

Source: http://ricette.giallozafferano.it/Orecchiette-con-le-cime-di-rapa.html

Ingredients:
Turnip tops 1 kg 
Breadcrumbs 50 g 
Salt  
Garlic 1 clove 
Anchovies in oil 3 fillets 
Extra virgin olive oil 50 g

FOR 300 G OF FRESH ORECCHIETTE
Water 100 g 
Re-milled durum wheat semolina 200 g 
Salt

To make the orecchiette, first pour the durum wheat flour on the pastry board, form a "volcano" and add a pinch of salt. Pour the water at room temperature in the "crater" of the volcano  
and start working with your fingers to incorporate the flour and then knead, until a smooth and elastic mixture is obtained. 
It will take about ten minutes of processing. 
Give a round shape to the dough and cover with a cloth: it should rest at room temperature for about 15 minutes.
After the rest time, take a piece of dough, keeping the rest covered. 
Work the piece in a small tube about 1 cm thick. 
With the knife cut some small pieces of about 1 cm.
With the help of a smooth blade knife, form shells by dragging each piece towards you on the pastry board. 
Then turn the shell over itself. 
Continue until you finish all the dough and you have made your own Pugliese orecchiette.
Orecchiette with turnip tops
For turnip tops: 
Proceed to clean them by removing the outer leaves and keeping only the inner leaves and the flowers. 
Once ready, rinse them, then drain them, dry them well and keep aside. 
Meanwhile, put on the fire a pot with plenty of water, salt to taste, which will be used to boil the turnip tops.
In a large pan pour the oil and add the breadcrumbs, mix with a marisa and let it roast over medium heat, until it is golden brown, then keep it aside. 
As soon as the water has reached the boil, boil the turnip greens previously cleaned: they should cook for about 5 minutes.
In the meantime you can make the sauté: pour the oil in a pan, add a clove of crushed garlic and the anchovy fillets drained from the preservation oil. 
Stir with a wooden scoop to loosen the anchovies in the pan; it will take just a few minutes to make the sauce flavor and when it is ready, you can remove the garlic and turn off the heat.
After 5 minutes of cooking the tops, add the orecchiette in the same pot and cook for about another 5 minutes. 
Stir gently, then drain the orecchiette and turnip tops directly into the pan with the sauté.
Stir-fry briefly and adjust with a pinch of salt; once ready, turn off the heat and serve your orecchiette to the turnip tops, adding a bit of raw oil and the toasted breadcrumbs.

