paneer tikka recipe - spiced marianted grilled cottage cheese cubes.
author: dassana
recipe type: snack
cuisine: north indian
serves: 10 medium size skewers
ingredients (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
the main ingredients for paneer tikka:
250 gms paneer/cottage cheese
1 large red bell pepper
1 large yellow bell pepper
1 large green bell pepper/capsicum/shimla mirch
1 medium size onion
for the marinade:
200 gms hung curd/yogurt or thick curd/yogurt
1 tbsp ginger garlic paste or crushed ginger garlic
1 tsp ajwain/carom seeds
1 to 2 tsp kashmiri red chili powder
½ tsp turmeric powder/haldi
1 tsp jeera powder/cumin seeds powder
1 tsp dhania powder/coriander powder
½ tsp garam masala powder
1 tsp dry mango powder/amchur powder
1 tsp chaat masala
½ tsp black pepper powder (optional)
juice of half lemon
1 to 2 tbsp oil or ghee or butter for brushing
rock salt or black salt
how to make the recipe:
the veggies and paneer:
chop the paneer in square shaped cubes.
the veggies also should be chopped in square shapes. keep the chopped veggies and paneer aside.
the marinade:
in a large bowl, take the curd and whisk it till it becomes smooth
add ginger garlic paste and all the spice powders plus ajwain, including black salt.
mix the spice powders with the curd.
you could also add oil at this stage if you do not want to brush the paneer tikka with oil later.
add the veggies and paneer to the marinade.
marinate for atleast 2 hours or more in the refrigerator.
remove after 2 hours and bring the marinated paneer and veggies at room temperature.
skewer the veggies and paneer alternately on skewers or tooth picks.
preheat the oven for 3 minutes at 180 degree celsius.
on a rack or a plate arrange the paneer skewers. brush some oil on the veggies and paneer.
bake the paneer tikka for 20-25 minutes at 180 degree celsius.
after 10 remove the skewers, and turn the skewers. brush some more oil.
keep again in the oven and bake for a further 10-15 more.
arrange the panner tikka on a plate. sprinkle some chaat masala on paneer tikka.
serve the yummy panner tikka with mint chutney and onion rings with lemon wedges
notes
to make paneer tikka on tava follow this: 
1. use a non stick tava so that paneer does not stick while frying.
2. add two tbsp besan in the marination. this will prevent the paneer from sticking to the tava and will give a nice taste.
