Ingredients:
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon kosher salt*
1 tablespoon pure olive oil
3/4 cup warm water
2 cups bread flour (for bread machines)
1 teaspoon instant yeast
2 teaspoons olive oil
Olive oil, for the pizza crust
Flour, for dusting the pizza peel

Toppings:
1 1/2 ounces pizza sauce
1/2 teaspoon each chopped fresh herbs such as thyme, oregano, red pepper flakes, for example
A combination of 3 grated cheeses such as mozzarella, Monterey Jack, and provolone

Place the sugar, salt, olive oil, water, 1 cup of flour, yeast, and remaining cup
of flour into a standing mixer's work bowl. Using the paddle attachment, start the
mixer on low and mix until the dough just comes together, forming a ball. Lube the
hook attachment with cooking spray. Attach the hook to the mixer and knead for 15
minutes on medium speed.

Tear off a small piece of dough and flatten into a disc. Stretch
the dough until thin. Hold it up to the light and look to see if the baker's windowpane, or
taut membrane, has formed. If the dough tears before it forms, knead the dough for an additional
5 to 10 minutes. Roll the pizza dough into a smooth ball on the countertop. Place into a stainless
steel or glass bowl. Add 2 teaspoons of olive oil to the bowl and toss to coat. Cover with plastic
wrap and refrigerate for 18 to 24 hours.Place the pizza stone or tile onto the bottom of a cold
oven and turn the oven to its highest temperature, about 500 degrees F. If the oven has coils on the
oven floor, place the tile onto the lowest rack of the oven. Split the pizza dough into 2 equal parts
using a knife or a dough scraper. Flatten into a disk onto the countertop and then fold the dough into a ball.
Wet hands barely with water and rub them onto the countertop to dampen the surface.

Roll the dough on the surface until it tightens. Cover one ball with a tea towel and rest for 30 minutes.
Repeat the steps with the other piece of dough. If not baking the remaining pizza immediately,
spray the inside of a ziptop bag with cooking spray and place the dough ball into the bag. Refrigerate
for up to 6 days. Sprinkle the flour onto the peel and place the dough onto the peel. Using your hands,
form a lip around the edges of the pizza. Stretch the dough into a round disc, rotating after each stretch.
Toss the dough in the air if you dare. Shake the pizza on the peel to be sure that it will slide onto
the pizza stone or tile. (Dress and bake the pizza immediately for a crisp crust or rest the
dough for 30 minutes if you want a chewy texture.) Brush the rim of the pizza with olive oil. Spread
the pizza sauce evenly onto the pizza. Sprinkle the herbs onto the pizza and top with the cheese.
Slide the pizza onto the tile and bake for 7 minutes, or until bubbly and golden brown.
Rest for 3 minutes before slicing.
