Provencal Seared Chicken
(with Fingerling Potatoes, Green Beans, and Almonds)
- 12 Boneless, Skinless Chicken Thighs
- 3 Cloves Garlic
- 1 Pound Fingerling Potatoes
- 1 Tomato
- 1/2 Pound Green Beans
- 1 Bunch Thyme

Knick Knacks
- 2 Tablespoons Butter
- 2 Tablespoons White Wine Vinegar
- 1 Shallot
- 1/4 Cup All-Purpose Flour
- 1/4 Cup Sliced Almonds

Directions:
 1. Prepare the Ingredients - Wash and dry the fresh roduce. Heat a medium pot
    of salted water to boiling on high. Snap off and discard the stem ends of
    the green beans; cut in half crosswise. Cut the potatoes into 1-inch-thick
    piece on an angle. Peel and finely chop the garlic. Peel and thinly slice
    the shallot. Pick the thyme leaves off the stems; discard the stems and 
    roughly chop. Core and medium dice the tomato

 2. Blanch the greeen beans - Add the green beans to the pot of boiling water. 
    Cook 3 to 5 minutes, or until bright green and slightly softened. Using a
    slotted spoon, carefully transfer the cooked green beans to a strainer, 
    leaving the pot of water boiling. Rinse the green beans under cold water 
    for 30 to 45 seconds to stop the cooking process; thoroughly drain the
    green beans and transfer to a large bowl.

 3. Cook the Potatoes - Add the potatoes to the pot of boiling water used to
    cook the green beans. Cook 12 to 14 minutes, or until tender when pierced
    with a fork. Drain thoroughly and transfer to the bowl of blanched green
    beans.

 4. Coat & cook the chicken - While the potatoes cook, pat the chicken dry
    with paper towels; season on both sides with salt and pepper. Transfer to 
    a bowl with the flour; toss to coat. In a large, high-sided pan, heat 1 
    tablespoon of olive oil on medium-high until hot. Add half the chicken
    (tapping off any excess flour); cook 4 to 6 minutes, or until browned. 
    Flip; add 1 teaspoon of olive oil. Cook 2 to 4 minutes, or until cooked
    through. Transfer to a plate, leaving any browned bits (or food) in the 
    pan. Repeat with the remaining chicken, leaving it in the pan.

 5. Finish the chicken and make the sauce - Return the first batch of cooked
    chicken to the pan with the second batch. Add the garlic, shallot and
    thyme; season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occassionally, 30 
    seconds to 1 minute, or until softened and fragrant. Add the tomato, 
    vinegar and 1/2 cup of water; season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring
    occasionally and scraping up any fond, 4 to 6 minutes, or until the tomato
    has softened. Add the butter and blanched green beans and cooked potatoes.
    Cook, stirring occasionally, 1 to 2 minutes, or until well combined. Remove
    from heat; season with salt and pepper to taste.

 6. Plate your dish - Divide the finished chicken, vegetables and sauce 
    between 4 plates. Garnish with the almonds. Enjoy!