
Kansas City Style Pork Ribs
Recipe courtesy of Patrick and Gina Neely

Kansas City Style Pork Ribs
Total Time:
28 hr 15 min
Prep:
15 min
Inactive:
24 hr
Cook:
4 hr
Yield:4 large/8 small portions
Level:Easy
Ingredients

2 slabs pork spare ribs, 3 pounds each
Kansas City Barbeque Sauce, recipe follows
Dry Rub:
2 cups brown sugar
1/2 cup dry mustard
1 tablespoon cayenne pepper
1 tablespoon smoked paprika
1 tablespoon garlic powder
1 tablespoon onion powder
1 tablespoon salt
2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper
Kansas City Barbeque Sauce:
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 (about 2/3 cup)small onion, finely diced
3 cups water
1 cup (2 (6-ounce) cans) tomato paste
1/2 cup brown sugar
2/3 cup apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/4 teaspoon smoked paprika
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
ADD CHECKED ITEMS TO GROCERY LIST
Directions

Dry Rub:
Remove the thin white membrane off of the bone-side of the ribs. Mix together the brown sugar, dry mustard, cayenne, paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, salt and pepper in a small bowl. Massage the rub into the ribs and let sit for 1 hour or up to overnight.
If cooking on the grill, place the ribs meat-side down next to medium-hot coals that are about 225 degrees F. The indirect heat will cook them slower, making them tender. Allow to cook for 1 hour. Turn ribs every half hour and baste with the Kansas City Barbeque Sauce. Cook until the ribs are tender, about 3 to 4 hours.
If cooking indoors, place in a roasting pan with a rack. Slather the ribs with the Kansas City Barbeque Sauce and tent a piece of aluminum foil over them. In a preheated 350 degrees F. oven, place the ribs, basting with the sauce every 30 minutes and removing the foil for the last 30 minutes and cooking until fork tender, about 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Kansas City Barbeque Sauce:
In a small sauce pot on medium-high heat, heat the oil and add the onion, cooking until translucent.
Add the remaining ingredients in a large bowl and mix together. Add to sauce pan and let simmer for 30 to 45 minutes. Use to baste the pork spare ribs.
Yield: 3 cups
Recipe courtesy of The Neelys
Advertisement
© 2016 Television Food Network, G.P. All Rights Reserved.

