Ingredients

1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns
¾ cup reduced-sodium chicken broth
3 tablespoons reduced-sodium soy sauce
3 tablespoons rice vinegar
3 tablespoons Chinese rice wine (Shao Hsing or Shaoxing) or dry sherry
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil
2 tablespoons honey or sugar
2 whole star anise
1 bunch scallions, divided
1 tablespoon canola oil
4 chicken drumsticks, skin removed (see Tip)
4 bone-in chicken thighs, skin removed and trimmed
12 cloves garlic, peeled and left whole, plus 1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger
½ cup packed fresh basil leaves, plus 2 tablespoons chopped, preferably Thai basil

Preparation

1. Toast peppercorns in a large flat-bottomed carbon-steel wok or heavy skillet over high heat until fragrant, about 1 minute. Crush in a mortar and pestle or with a rolling pin. Set aside near the stove. 

2. Meanwhile, combine broth, soy sauce, rice vinegar, rice wine (or sherry), sesame oil, honey (or sugar) and star anise in a medium bowl. Finely chop enough scallions to equal 2 tablespoons and reserve for garnish; cut the remaining scallions into 2-inch lengths. Place the sauce and scallion pieces near the stove.

3. Heat canola oil in the wok (or skillet) over high heat until shimmering. Reduce heat to medium-high; add 2 drumsticks and 2 thighs and cook, undisturbed, for 4 minutes. Carefully flip the chicken over and cook for 3 minutes on the other side, reducing the heat as needed if the pan gets too hot. Transfer the chicken to a plate and repeat with remaining chicken; remove to the plate. Add the scallion pieces, garlic and ginger to the pan; cook, stirring once or twice, until they begin to brown, about 1 minute. Add the crushed peppercorns and stir for 5 seconds. Add the reserved sauce and cook 2 minutes. Add the chicken; stir to coat with the sauce.

4. Adjust the heat to maintain a simmer, cover the pan and cook, turning the chicken halfway through, until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part without touching bone registers 165°F, 15 to 20 minutes. Stir in basil leaves and cook, uncovered, for 1 minute more. Garnish with the chopped scallions and chopped basil.

To remove the skin from chicken drumsticks, grip skin from the meaty end of the drumstick with a paper towel and pull down toward the exposed bone until it comes off completely.

People with celiac disease or gluten-sensitivity should use soy sauces that are labeled "gluten-free," as soy sauce may contain wheat or other gluten-containing sweeteners and flavors.