
Ingredients

    1 cup Whole Wheat Flour
    1 tablespoon baking powder
    1/4 teaspoon salt
    1 cup almond milk or dairy-free milk of choice
    2 tablespoons olive oil or melted coconut oil
    2 tablespoons maple syrup or sugar of choice
    1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
    More oil to grease your pan/skillet, if necessary


Instructions

    1. In a mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder and salt. In a 2-cup liquid measuring cup or
    another mixing bowl, whisk together the milk, oil, maple syrup and vanilla extract until thoroughly
    blended. (If your coconut oil solidifies on contact with the cold milk, gently warm it in the microwave
    just until it liquifies again.)

    2. Pour the liquid mixture into the dry mixture. Stir until combined, so only a few lumps remain (don’t
    over-mix or your pancakes will be tough!). If you’d like to mix in any totally optional add-ins (like
    chocolate chips or blueberries), gently fold them in now. Let the batter rest for 5 minutes so your
    pancakes will be nice and fluffy.

    3. Meanwhile, if you’ll be using an electric skillet, heat it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Otherwise, heat
    a heavy cast iron skillet or nonstick griddle over medium-low heat. You’re ready to start cooking your
    pancakes once the surface of the pan is hot enough that a drop of water sizzles on contact.

    4. If necessary, lightly oil the cooking surface with additional oil or cooking spray (I don’t oil the
    surface of my non-stick griddle and my pancakes turned out great).

    5. Using a 1/4-cup measure, scoop the batter onto the warm skillet. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes until small
    bubbles form on the surface of the pancakes (you’ll know it’s ready to flip when about ½-inch of the
    perimeter is matte instead of glossy), and flip. Cook on the opposite sides for 1 to 2 minutes, or until
    golden brown.

    6. Repeat the process with the remaining batter, adding more oil as needed. You may need to adjust the
    heat up or down at this point. Serve the pancakes immediately or keep warm in a 200 degree Fahrenheit
    oven.
