VIETNAMESE CHICKEN NOODLE BOWL
-------------------------------

PRINT
PREP TIME
20 mins
COOK TIME
5 mins
TOTAL TIME
25 mins
 
Easy light, healthy noodles topped with tasty marinaded meat, fresh vegetables and herbs, drizzled lightly with a zingy sauce. The marinade is extremely versatile - if you just use this recipe as a guide, you can tailor it to your own taste. Don't be daunted by the list of ingredients - the ingredients for the marinade and sauce are largely the same.
Author: Nagi
Recipe type: Noodles
Cuisine: Vietnamese
Serves: 2
INGREDIENTS
Meat and Marinade
250g/8z chicken thigh fillets (or pork, beef or any seafood)
1 clove minced garlic
1 tbsp lime juice (about ½ fresh lime)
1 tbsp fish sauce
½ tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp brown sugar
½ tbsp vegetable oil
½ stalk lemongrass, white part only, bruised them sliced into pieces easy to pick out later (see notes)
Nuoc Cham
1½ tbsp fish sauce
2 tbsp cup rice vinegar
1 tbsp white sugar
¼ cup water
1 garlic clove, finely chopped (not minced with garlic crusher)
½ red birdseye chilli, finely chopped (or adjust quantity to your taste)
1½ tbsp lime juice
Noodle Bowl
½ tbsp oil
100g / 3½ oz vermicelli noodles, dried
1 carrot, julienned
1 cucumber julienned (with seeds removed)
1½ cups shredded lettuce
1 cup bean sprouts
Small handful of mint leaves
Small handful of cilantro/coriander
Sliced chili (for garnish - optional)
Lime wedges (to serve - optional)
INSTRUCTIONS
Combine Meat and Marinade ingredients and set aside for at least 20 minutes, or freeze.
Combine the Nuoc Cham ingredients and mix well to dissolve the sugar. Adjust to your taste (spiciness, lime, sweetness) and set aside.
Soak the vermicelli noodles in hot water for 3 minutes (or according to packet instructions), then drain and rinse under cold water to stop the noodles from sticking together.
Heat ½ tbsp oil in a fry pan over medium heat (or heat the BBQ). Place chicken in the pan and cook each side until dark golden brown and chicken is just cooked through - about 6 to 8 minutes in total. Remove from pan and set aside to rest for 5 minutes. Then slice into thin pieces.
To serve individually: Place noodles in bowl. Then either top or lightly toss through the vegetables and herbs, and top with chicken pieces. Drizzle with a few tablespoons of Nuoc Cham Sauce and serve with lime wedges.
To serve to share (my preferred way): Place meat and vegetables on a large platter with the sauce, and the noodles in a bowl, and let your guests help themselves.
NOTES
1. Lemongrass lasts for weeks in the fridge so you can store the remainder to use for other recipes. Here are two more of mine that use lemongrass - Vietnamese Chicken Wings and Vietnamese Pork Cutlets.
2. Make this kid friendly by just serving the chilli on the side.
3. Fish sauce is a key ingredient in a lot of Asian cooking. Don't worry, it doesn't taste fishy when combined with other ingredients! It's an incredible flavour enhancer that has more depth than salt or soy sauce and is very cheap to buy at supermarkets or Asian grocery stores (even better value!).